---
layout: project
permalink: /:title/
category: projects

meta:
  keywords: "Jekyll, Jess, Eng"

project:
  title: "Jess Eng"
  cookie: "jesseng"
  type: "Jekyll"
  logo: "assets/images/projects/aquapineapple/logo.png"
  unread: "assets/images/projects/jesseng/jesseng-unread.png"
  read: "assets/images/projects/jesseng/jesseng-read.png"

images:
- image:
  url: "assets/images/projects/jesseng/jesseng-unread.png"
  alt: "unread"
- image:
  url: "assets/images/projects/jesseng/jesseng-read.png"
  alt: "read"

bio: "<h3>Harvard intro:</h3>
<p>Jess Eng is a sophomore (’21) in Adams House concentrating in Statistics and Folk and Mythology. She is originally from San Francisco, California. On campus, Jess is involved with the Harvard-Radcliffe Modern Dance Company (HRMDC), TF-ing CS50, Harvard Radio Broadcasting (WHRB), and the Food Literacy Project.</p>"

---
<h3>Which parts of your identity do you value the most?</h3>
<p>
I think what I value most about my identity is being someone who is creating.
Before college, I didn't really consider myself a creative because I was much more of a consumer. I learned choreography. I danced it, I listened to music, I didn't really create music. I wasn’t a musician – I didn't learn how to play an instrument. I don't sing.
</p><p>
I wouldn't have considered myself a creative before coming to Harvard. At Harvard, I think I've felt more comfortable creating things and not worrying what other people think about it.
I still feel a little uncomfortable assigning the label of creative to me because usually that's assigned to someone who is producing things constantly. Whereas, I'm not on a timeline. I just create things when I have time. I can have a spirit of creativity and go with it sometimes in ways that I wouldn't even imagine. But most of the times I pride myself on thinking of cool ideas, conceptualizing them, not necessarily implementing them right away, but having just the confidence to talk about them with other people.
</p>

<h3>Which parts of your identity do interact with most on a daily basis?</h3>
<p>
There's so many things at once.
</p><p>
I think as someone who's an Asian American woman, when I have conversations with people who aren't of that identity or who don't identify with that label, I often feel like I'm being viewed as someone who might not necessarily have as big of a voice. Both voice as in speaking up and voice as in having legitimate opinions. And that's particularly difficult for me, I guess, because that kind of intertwines with conversations with people, with friends, with teachers and speaking up in class.
</p><p>
Um, and then like on a lighter tone [laughs], I really do think about how I am a sister. I think about my sister a lot and the things that she does, she cooks amazing Asian food and seeing HUDS food in the dining hall is never going to be as... I guess fulfilling as something that uplifts me, you know, and having that part of my identity and past experiences with me right now.
</p>

<h3>How do you use to describe your racial and ethnic identity and how do those words connect to how you see yourself?</h3>
<p>
That's a good question and something I've thought about a lot. So often when I introduced myself as a Chinese American, I always precede that by third generation Chinese American because I think there's always this perception of who's a Chinese American.
</p><p>
You have totally different experiences based on the generation you're born in. For instance, like I did not grow up in a Chinese speaking family. Having that realization that I didn't understand some things… all my friends knew Cantonese. Not being able to order [food], not being able to interact with my friends’ parents, not being able to have a deep and personal conversation with my grandma…
There's a lot of things that I tried to tell myself to mitigate those feelings. For instance, I was like, Mom, why didn't you put me in Chinese school at an earlier age? Or like, you know, forced me to learn? And honestly, even though I tell her that jokingly and maybe sometimes seriously, it's honestly not her fault, it's just how I was raised and what they thought was right for me.
</p><p>
And so, I always precede [third-generation] to make people think about how they would perceive me and still some people were like, why don't you speak Chinese? And, you know, I took up to AP Chinese in high school. So I did try to, I did grapple with those feelings and tried to take responsibility in my own hands and try to learn more. And that has happened to some extent. I can have more of a conversation with my grandma now.
I found a lot more closure in saying [I’m third generation Chinese-American]. I'm always going to use third-generation, which maybe is something other people don't really think about, that generation part of Chinese American or generation part of Asian American. But that's something I think about because I was raised in those conditions.
</p>

<h3>Would you want others to see you differently if given the chance?</h3>
<p>
I mean, yes, I feel like people should feel comfortable coming to me to have a conversation. I feel like I only have shared, you know, my future aspirations and goals with people who've... It's not something you totally open up to someone about.
</p><p>
I always get the question, are you a CS major? And I'm like, no. And maybe I do some things like being a CS50 TF or even looking at those opportunities for the summer… having that perception of doing a certain thing, but I really hope – or really would want people to like come to me to talk more about how I see myself in the world. Just talking to me about my future aspirations is a good entry point to people learning more about me.
</p>
