---
layout: project
permalink: /:title/
category: projects

meta:
  keywords: "Jekyll, Samuel, Moy"

project:
  title: "Samuel Moy"
  cookie: "sammoy"
  type: "Jekyll"
  logo: "assets/images/projects/aquapineapple/logo.png"
  unread: "assets/images/projects/sammoy/sammoy-unread.png"
  read: "assets/images/projects/sammoy/sammoy-read.png"

images:
- image:
  url: "assets/images/projects/sammoy/sammoy-unread.png"
  alt: "unread"
- image:
  url: "assets/images/projects/sammoy/sammoy-read.png"
  alt: "read"

bio: "<h2>Sam Moy</h2>
<p>Sam Moy is a 4th year PhD student in the Health Policy program. He grew up in the Metro St. Louis area and did his undergraduate studies at the University of Chicago. On campus, he actively works with the graduate student union and volunteers with PBHA’s Chinatown Afterschool Program.</p>"

---
<h3>What are some ways that you see yourself?</h3>
<p>
My dad is the Chinese American one in my family. My mom is white. My dad was the son of immigrants from Hong Kong that came over kind of at an unusual time, so they came to the US in the thirties and then my grandmother came over after World War II in the forties. So it's…it's different from a lot my peers and other Asian Americans that I've met on campuses who seemed to have come over in the massive wave of Taiwanese PhD students. My dad was born in Chicago and he and his siblings grew up in Chinatown for a bit, but then over the years, they all seem to have lost touch with various aspects of Asian identity, certainly with modern Chinese identity in a lot of ways.
<br>
And that's really affected the way in which I've grown up experiencing Asian American identity. My dad speaks a little bit of a rural dialect of Cantonese, but even he doesn't understand much of that anymore. It’s sort of a dying language and he actually didn't want me or my siblings to grow up learning Chinese. So we didn't do any of the activities like going to Chinese school. We actually couldn't even speak with our grandparents because they really only spoke Cantonese and so we had to sort of translate and just give them little updates on what we were doing in school at the time. So I guess that coupled with the fact that I grew up in an area where there are very few Asian Americans, made it so that I didn't have that much of a conception of Asian American identity at all until going to undergrad. For the first 18 years of my life, the Asian American identity that I had was sort of projected onto me by my peers. Undergrad was a time in which a lot of the notions [of Asian American identity] that I had were dispelled. And honestly, I would get teased a lot by my friends that were Asian American for seeming to lack the sort of relevant degree of Asian.
<br>
I think beyond that, because I do have certain features that make it somewhat clear that I look Asian. I think it's sort of assumed that I do have – not even sure what to call it – but sort of the privilege to speak as though I am an ambassador of Asian culture and Asian identity and you know, that's something that's actually kind of fun to exploit every now and then. But in a lot of ways, it's still quite strange to me. I feel just very midwestern. My perceptions of Asian countries is all just traveling there as a tourist and yet at the same time, the way I experienced it, it is very different than the way I would had I grown up totally white, midwesterner.
</p>

<h3>Outside of your identity as Asian American, what parts of your identity do you interact with on a daily basis?</h3>
<p>
Without trying to come across as a nationalist, I honestly view my identity as an American. Probably the reasons for that, this is home and I've lived in a number of places in the country and yet, no matter where I live, there's certain things that I want to do. I want to get engaged with the community. I really enjoy volunteering with programs that work with kids. I place a lot of importance on sort of civic duty and voting, being active in the local community with issues that are quite relevant at a small scale.
<br>
I also have pretty close ties with my family, I've got my niece as my background screen [on my phone] and yeah, try to spend as much time with my two brothers.
</p>

<h3>How do you feel about how you are seen by others?</h3>
<p>
I have a funny anecdote about this. When I was in kindergarten, we were making little paper dolls that were supposed to symbolize ourselves. We were being aided by parent volunteers that had come in, and for the longest time, my brothers and I had not really thought of ourselves as being different or Asian in the remotest. One thing I can distinctly remember my mom saying to us was that our hair was just very, very, very dark brown.
<br>
One of the volunteer parents was working on my [doll]. I turned away and then I come back and this doll has like a slightly different skin tone and jet black hair. And I remember being appalled when I saw it. I was like, oh my God, is that me? [laughs].
<br>
And so five year old Sam was clearly upset and disturbed by this and couldn't quite process the fact that… that his doll somehow stood out and was different from the others.
<br>
Since then, I think I've much more come to terms with how I look [laughs]. My hair is very definitively black. In fact, it’s quite dark for Asian standards.
<br>
So inevitably that's going to color how people perceive me. For me personally, I wouldn't say that it bothers me that much.
</p>
