---
layout: project
permalink: /:title/
category: projects

meta:
  keywords: "Jekyll, Anna, Lee"

project:
  title: "Anna Lee"
  cookie: "annalee"
  type: "Jekyll"
  logo: "assets/images/projects/aquapineapple/logo.png"
  unread: "assets/images/projects/annalee/annalee-unread.png"
  read: "assets/images/projects/annalee/annalee-read.png"

images:
- image:
  url: "assets/images/projects/annalee/annalee-unread.png"
  alt: "unread"
- image:
  url: "assets/images/projects/annalee/annalee-read.png"
  alt: "read"

bio: "<h2>Anna Lee</h2>
<p>Anna Lee is an academic junior (’20) studying Comparative Literature and living in Lowell House. Anna spent most of her childhood in New York but previously lived in South Korea, Japan, and Singapore. On campus, Anna plays violin in various groups and events.
</p>"

---
<h3>What are some ways that you see yourself?</h3>
<p>
Being a very good daughter or a good older sister is probably one of the most important thing if I had to pick one. I have two younger siblings, so my first point of reference is being the older sister. My brother jokingly calls me “Benjamin Button” because I was extremely serious as a kid. I had no sense of humor and I acted like such an adult. I think part of it was this inherent understanding that I had to be very responsible and a very good older sister. But now, in my mid 20s, I'm much more... I allow other people to take care of me. I just act much more child-like.
<p></p>
I've also been a musician since I was four, so that's the next thing that comes up. I started performing when I was five. I don't remember a time in my life when I wasn't a performer or a musician.
<p></p>
Faith is also really important in our family, so being Christian is a big point of reference. My grandparents are missionaries, and so belonging to this bigger family of a church has been a big part of my life.
</p>

<h3>Has the way you see yourself changed as you’ve grown older?</h3>
<p>
Yes and no.
<p></p>
Yes, it's changed in the sense that… I think when you're in college, your relationships change the most, especially with your family. As I've grown older and spent time away from home and my siblings, I became much more conscious of how I actually based my life value on being a good sister or daughter or whatever. And because I recognized that, I was able to let it go a little bit. I think that's why I could be Benjamin Button, only because I realized that I could screw up or be kind of childish and my brother wouldn't lose his respect for me.
<p></p>
No, in the sense that I've been working as a musician since I was five and that hasn't changed. I'm still the oldest in my family. That's never going to change [laughs]. I think the biggest things – the basis of them don't change. It’s the way we interact with them that changes, not the actual basis of the identity itself.
</p>

<h3>What words do you use to describe your racial or ethnic identity, and how do some of those words connect with ways you do or don’t see yourself?</h3>
<p>
I'll probably just say Asian American, to be the most general about it [laughs]. The funny thing is I never really thought about what it meant to be Asian or to be American for a really long time. A friend of mine brought up a very good point that, because I’ve been a musician since I was really young, I never had the question of being Asian American. That was never the first thing people said about me. I think that maybe subconsciously made me think that I was immune to having to think about being Asian American in a sense, you know?
<p></p>
After my freshman fall at Harvard, I moved to Germany, and that was actually the first time that I really thought about being Asian. I would meet all these people and they'd ask, “where are you from?” I’d respond, “I'm from New York.” Obviously – I sound like I'm from America.
<p></p>
But they’d continue, "where are you originally from?" It really made me think about what it meant to be Asian or what it meant to be American, and how I wanted to feel. In a way, I think I felt very defensive. I would be like, I don't have any memories of Korea. Why would I identify with a country where I have no memories from?
<p></p>
The time that it was the last straw was when someone said to me, "It's really unbecoming for you to act so American because you're not American.” And I was like, huh, let's go back and rework this. What does that mean about what you think it means to be American? What does that mean about what you think it means to be Asian? Does it mean that you think my personality is a nationality issue?
<p></p>
He went on to say, “You're becoming this beautiful young lady, and it's time to start acting like one." The implications aren't extremely clear. I mean, he didn't say, you need to shut up and be docile. But that was exactly what he meant, you know? And for him, he was complimenting me. That was the worst part of it.
<p></p>
And so I think from then on, it just started to bother me all the time, when people make even little comments. The small things that didn't bother me before would enrage me.
</p>

<h3>How do you feel about how you are seen by others, and would you want others to see you differently?</h3>
<p>
I think it’s difficult because I think we want to be seen differently [in different contexts]. We all make boxes to categorize other people because that's how we retain information. But of course, you would hope that people aren't judging or that people are open to different kinds of goals, but I think… yeah, I don’t know. I think it's a very philosophical question about how we see ourselves and how we hope other people to see us. I mean, that's something that people probably struggle with – that I know people struggle with – regardless of racial identity or like, you know, any kind of identity marker.
</p>
