---
layout: project
permalink: /:title/
category: projects

meta:
  keywords: "Jekyll, Amy, Zhou"

project:
  title: "Amy Zhou"
  cookie: "amyzhou"
  type: "Jekyll"
  logo: "assets/images/projects/aquapineapple/logo.png"
  unread: "assets/images/projects/amyzhou/amyzhou-unread.png"
  read: "assets/images/projects/amyzhou/amyzhou-read.png"

images:
- image:
  url: "assets/images/projects/amyzhou/amyzhou-unread.png"
  alt: "unread"
- image:
  url: "assets/images/projects/amyzhou/amyzhou-read.png"
  alt: "read"

bio: "
<h2>Amy Zhou</h2>
<p>
Amy Zhou is a sophomore (’21) in Mather House studying a joint concentration in Computer Science and Women and Gender Studies. Amy grew up primarily in Indiana, but attended high school in Gold Coast, Australia. On campus, Amy is a part of the classical department and Ad board at the Harvard Radio Station (WHRB), plays viola in the Bach Society Orchestra, and helps organize WECode, the women in computer science conference.
</p>"
---

<h3>What are some ways you see yourself?</h3>
<p>
In high school, I definitely saw myself as the overachiever, the STEM person. I see myself as a friend, as a big sister. I identify as Australian, but also American, but also Chinese and Asian American.
</p><p>
Identity is something I've been thinking a lot more this year, and also just reflecting a lot on my own demographics too. The fact that I come from an upper middle-class family, and I've been able to live very comfortably. The fact that both my parents are very well-educated and really supported me growing up. All of these feed into my identities.
</p>

<h3>What parts of your identity are most important to you?</h3>
<p>
I think my values are very important to me. At the end of the day, no matter how hard I work or how successful I want to be, I want to be a good person. And I think that means just being very caring about other people, being very friendly, being someone that other people want to hang around with.
</p>

<h3>What parts of your identity were most important to you growing up?</h3>
<p>
I was the prized Asian kid growing up. I went to very, very white schools until I moved to Australia. Freshman year of high school in Indiana, there were about 400 students in my cohort, and there were like eight Asians. So pretty much all my friends were white. I was definitely that smart Asian girl who did math competitions and chemistry competitions, played piano. Basically your typical Asian stereotype. That was my identity before I moved to Australia.
</p>

<h3>What are some similarities and/or differences between how you saw yourself growing up versus now?</h3>
<p>
I always felt I was the Asian stereotype and I didn't want to be that. I was always like, why am I like every other Asian? Why do I also play piano, do math, and am good at sciences? The only two differences – I remember thinking this before – are that one: I don't wear glasses, and two: I play viola, not violin. But even that is pretty similar.
</p><p>
At college, maybe because of the way I felt growing up, I really wanted to push myself and do things that I didn't do before. One of the big ones that I ended up liking a lot is the radio. I keep half-joking, half-seriously telling my friends that I want to join the Beekeepers society for a semester and do things like improv comedy. Maybe I'm proactively trying to steer away from the Asian stereotype, but now that I'm out of high school, I have all this time that I can use to explore different things outside of my academic life.
</p>

<h3>What words do you use about your racial/ethnic identity, and how do those words connect with how you do or don’t see yourself?</h3>
<p>
I'd say that like racially and ethnically, I am Chinese. My nationality is American and soon to be Australian, so that’s gonna be confusing. But I definitely identify with all three of them to some extent.
</p><p>
I think contrary to a lot of American-born Chinese people, I am like Super Chinese. My mom is a Chinese teacher, she instilled a lot of like Chinese heritage and Chinese culture into my upbringing. I spent my last summer in China and I felt so comfortable there – sometimes more comfortable there than I do in America. It definitely does have to do with the fact that I'm pretty fluent [in Mandarin].
</p><p>
At the same time, I'm very grateful for the fact that my parents came to America and had me here. I think a lot of the ideologies and values I have and a lot of the ways that I see myself – it'd be very different if I were brought up in China.
</p><p>

<h3>How do you think others see you?</h3>
<p>
People have definitely asked me before, “how are you happy all the time?” And it's true, I am happy pretty much all the time. There definitely are times where I'm down or tired or just not feeling it, but I don't want to put my negative energy on other people.
</p><p>
I think that [part of me] comes from going to a really white school and me feeling like I didn't really fit in. My thought process was like, if I don't complain very much and I'm happy all the time, then people will like me and want to be my friend. And that’s been so ingrained in who I am as a person, that's just who I am now.
</p><p>
Also, interestingly, after moving to Australia, I became much more extroverted. I think that has to do with the fact that I was very well-accepted into my new school, and also that again, I was like, shoot, I literally have no friends in this new country. How am I going to make people like me?
</p>

<h3>How do you feel about how you were seen by others, and would you want others to see you differently?</h3>
<p>
It makes me very uncomfortable if I feel like someone doesn't like me. But I'm slowly realizing that it's impossible to make everyone like you, and there are going to be times when people just don't like you, or sometimes people think that they're much better than you, and that's okay.
</p><p>
I feel very lucky that I'm in this spot in my life where I feel very comfortable with who I am generally. I mean, I do have a couple of insecurities here and there, but overall, I feel very comfortable in my own skin.
</p>
