---
layout: project
permalink: /:title/
category: projects

meta:
  keywords: "Jekyll, Catherine, Zhang"

project:
  title: "Catherine Zhang"
  cookie: "catzhang"
  type: "Jekyll"
  logo: "assets/images/projects/aquapineapple/logo.png"
  unread: "assets/images/projects/catzhang/catzhang-unread.png"
  read: "assets/images/projects/catzhang/catzhang-read.png"

images:
- image:
  url: "assets/images/projects/catzhang/catzhang-unread.png"
  alt: "unread"
- image:
  url: "assets/images/projects/catzhang/catzhang-read.png"
  alt: "read"

quote: I'm trying to move into a place where I am willing to have approval of self and be comfortable in my own skin.

bio: "<h2>Catherine Zhang</h2>
<p>Catherine Zhang is a senior (’19) living in Cabot House studying Psychology and Educational Studies. She grew up outside of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. In her time at Harvard, she has participated in many clubs including the Harvard Project for Asian International Relations, Harvard Model United Nations, and the Expressions Dance Company. She also served as a mentor at the Ed Portal and as a Peer Advising Fellow (PAF). Most recently, Catherine served as the president of the Harvard Undergraduate Council and is involved in the 2019 Class Committee.</p>"
---
<h3>What are some ways that you see yourself?</h3>
<p>
My first year [at Harvard], I took one of my favorite classes: Dilemmas of Equity and Excellence in K-12 Education. There was an exercise we did where we were listing out different forms of your identity and then slowly taking them away. And I remember writing down Asian American or maybe more specifically Chinese American, then female, then irreligious or agnostic, and then a few other ones. I remember at that time I'd also written down leader as one of my identity markers, and at the end when we took them away one at a time, [leader] was the one that I felt like was most central to how I saw myself. I didn't feel as if the other parts of my identity fully encompassed all that I hoped to be.
<p></p>
I think what has mostly encompassed my identity has always been my personality much more than any sort of outward feature of identity, which has been interesting. And I would say that [my identity] is slowly changing over time. I did a lot of identity reflection this summer, and I realized my reflection of myself and my own identity has drastically shaped over time in terms of what is going on at that point in my life.
<p></p>
I would say this past year, my junior year, my gender identity became very salient to me and this current year, as a senior now, I would say my racial identity is becoming a lot more salient to me as a result of what I'm learning and as a result of what's happening in the world around me. So I would say yeah, it's definitely changed over time.
</p>

<h3>Are there similarities and or differences between how you saw yourself growing up versus now?</h3>
<p>
Yeah. Wow.
<p></p>
Growing up, there was a big part of me that tried to push away my racial identity. For me growing up in an extremely white community, perhaps around 95 percent white, the parts that I held onto with race were within my internal family, within my own family's network of Asian families. And then within Chinese school or the three different kinds of areas in which my racial identity was there, and I don't think I necessarily ever felt like I really connected with those deeply.
<p></p>
I think so much of my growing up, in ways that I didn't understand before, were characterized by not wanting to be labeled as in any sort of stereotype or not wanting to be judged before someone knew who I was. I think for me, I tried to pretty consciously push back on that. It wasn’t intentional, but when I think about it… even though I was getting good grades and excelling academically, I would outwardly portray messages to peers that I also was struggling in different ways. While yes, I loved seeping myself into my school work, I also tried to push back on it and get involved really heavily in things outside of academics and also really put myself out there. And I think a part of it was innate personality for sure. But I do think there were times where I was like, how do I push back against what people may perceive me as?
<p></p>
I think that has changed now in terms of being more comfortable in my own skin. As a psychology major, I'm constantly thinking about different ways how identity is resolved and solidified. And I do think that when we're younger, we want the approval of our parents, and when we're going through our adolescent phases, we want the approval of our peers, and I think that is so extremely true of any adolescents and definitely so of myself. But I think, in a way, I'm trying to move past that and into a place where I am willing to have approval of self, of being grounded in myself and being happy with the person I am and comfortable in my own skin.
</p>

<h3>How do you feel about how you are seen by others and would you want others to see you differently?</h3>
<p>
I would say my biggest insecurity in general is being seen as a non-genuine person, and I think that leads into some of my greatest strengths, but also leads into – unfortunately – caring a lot about what people think.
<p></p>
Something that I take with me always is that people's reactions are more of a reflection of themselves than on me. And so I think for the way how I perceive people perceiving me… I probably would have said something different last year.
<p></p>
But I think now I'm in the space where the people who matter to me, I know the way they perceive me because I'm very open about wanting to always get feedback about who I am and how I can be a better friend or a partner or anything like that. And I… I don't know if I want them to perceive me differently unless it is not a reflection of who I want to be and who I believe I am. And so if those two are misaligned, then I think it's something important enough to me for those of whom I am close with to talk about it.
</p>
